# CS50-Final-Project
This is my CS50 Final Project

My final project is a programme that aids in scam detection. The programme has 2 main functions. When the programme is run, the user will be prompted to type 1 or 2 based on the function he desires to use in the programme, where 1 refers to the first function and 2 refers to the second function. Besides the file that contains the main programme, I have also created 2 files, one being a file to store the common scam words, named scam_words.txt. The other file stores the email of the scammer, named blacklist_email.txt.

The first function will be a function to update a word bank of commonly used words in scams. This current word bank is mainly a prototype with a limited amount of words stored in a text file, named scam_words.txt. The user will be prompted to input a word that he commonly encounters in scams. This word will then be converted to its root form, removing past tense and plural forms of the word the user has typed in. This function returning the root word, lemmatization, is made possible using the nltk library. The user’s input is then checked against the text file. If the word is not found in the library, it will be directly stored in the text file. However, if the word is already in the word bank, the user will be informed of such and re-prompted if he or she would like to add another word to the word bank. If the user’s input is invalid, the programme will display an error message of invalid input. One limitation of this programme would be its inability to store or match phrases in the word bank but only singular words at a time. 

The second function will be a function to determine if a user’s text or message received is a scam message. The user will first be prompted to input his text into the programme. The user’s input will then be converted into multiple word tokens in a lits, made possible using the nltk library. The programme once again converts the word to its root form, removing past tense and the plural forms of the word. This function returning the root word, lemmatization, is made possible using the nltk library. Additionally, the programme is also able to remove commonly used words in text and messages such as “I”, “the”, “their”. These stopwords are removed via the nltk library as this allows greater accuracy when matching the text to common scam words. 

Following this, the word tokens will then be matched against the words in the word bank, stored in scam_words.txt. If the words are matched against the words in the file, they will be termed scam words. Otherwise, they will be counted as normal words. If the number of scam words are greater than the number of normal words, the programme will show the user that the message they have input into the programme is highly likely a scam, with a percentage displaying how likely the message is to be a scam. Otherwise, the programme if the number of scam words are less than the number of normal words, the programme will show the user that the message they have input into the programme is highly unlikely a scam, with a percentage displaying how likely the message is to be a scam. The percentage of how likely the message is to being a scam is determined by taking the number of scam words as a fraction of the total words in the message and multiplying that fraction by 100%. 

If the message was deemed to be a scam, the programme will finally prompt the user for the scammer’s email that was used to send the message to the user, storing this email in a file named blacklist_email.txt. The user’s input will be checked via a regular expression for emails and the programme will re-prompt the user if the email typed in is in an invalid input. One limitation of the second function could possibly be its inability to match phrases in the user’s input, only allowing the matching of words. 

All in all, this project has been a very fun and meaningful project, where it has taught me the many uses of libraries in python and made me use the skills I have learnt in this 9 week course to come up with a project that I am proud of. In the future, I may be able to improve this programme by allowing the programme to make use of AI and data sets to train it, or I could even make use of a bigger data file of scam words, allowing the model to have greater accuracy in predicting the possibility of scams. 
